.TH mmCQL 1 "2020-11-23" "version 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
mmCQL \- SQL-like tool to manipulate mmCIF files
.SH SYNOPSIS
mmCQL [OPTION] input [output]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mmCIF format is a structured format and with a proper dictionary it even
looks a lot like a database with relations between categories that act as
tables.
.sp
In pipelines processing mmCIF files it is often required to simply change the
content of a single field, or add some data, delete it, etc. For this the
mmCQL tool offers a \fBSQL\fR like language.
.sp
This tool is not a complete and finished piece of software, it lack perhaps
a lot of functionality. However, it is already very useful to simply lookup
some value or change items based on some criteria.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--force\fR
Write output file even if the name of the output file is the same as the
input file, which will of course overwrite the input file.
.TP
\fB--script\fR=<file>, \fB-f\fR <file>
Read commands from the file \fB<file\fR.
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR,\fB-v\fR
Be more verbose, useful to diagnose validation errors.
.SH EXAMPLES
You can do simple updates, like so:
.sp
\fBUPDATE\fR struct_asym \fBSET\fR id = 'X' \fBWHERE\fR id = 'BBB';
.sp
This will rename the asym with ID 'BBB' to 'X'. All children of this asym
will be renamed as well if the proper dictionary was loaded.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Maarten L. Hekkelman <maarten@hekkelman.com>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at https://github.com/PDB-REDO/cif-tools/issues
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcif-diff\fR, \fBcif-drop\fR, \fBcif-grep\fR, \fBcif-merge\fR, 
\fBcif2pdb\fR, \fBmmCQL\fR, \fBpdb2cif\fR.
